# Tunnel-Surrounding-Rock-Image-Classification-Algorithm-in-TBM
Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) has significant advantages in terms of safety, tunnel quality, and is a major development in future tunnel construction. Different rock levels in TBM construction require different thrusts and speeds, so correctly identify of the rock level can speed up the construction process, reduce cutter losses and reduce the difficulty of construction. However, relying solely on the driver can lead to misjudgments and even pose a threat to safety. Therefore, the correct classification of rock level becomes particularly important. New cutting-edge techniques and methods are constantly being proposed by scholars, and research on TBM rock level classification is being updated and developed. This study has significant value and significance as it can use machine learning to help drivers accurately identify the surrounding rock grade for safer excavation, as well as speed up construction, reduce potential risks, avoid excessive project delays, and safeguard project implementation.
Firstly, this paper analyses literatures on TBM rock level classification from multiple perspectives and explains how machine learning algorithms can be applied to the study of TBM rock image classification. Secondly, three supervised learning algorithms are used to establish a classification model for the surrounding rock level based on a combination of TBM rock breaking patterns and information from the excavation data. Finally, the semi-supervised learning algorithms FixMatch and MixMatch were used to build a semi-supervised learning model for surrounding rock classification, and the performance of the model was analyzed at different data set scales for model optimization comparison. The experimental results show that: (1) the best performing model in the supervised learning classification algorithm is the EfficientNet model, with an accuracy of 96.03% and fast convergence; (2) the ResNet model follows closely in the supervised learning, with a similar accuracy and shorter time, and the FCN performs worse; (3) in the semi-supervised learning algorithm, the FixMatch performs better than MixMatch; (4) WideResnet in FixMatch uses 20% of the labelled models for training to get the best perimeter rock classification recognition accuracy.
This paper draws some conclusions based on the existing dataset, and future research will continue to explore and improve on how to use better methods to classify TBM perimeter rock images.
KEYWORDS：Machine Learning; Supervised Learning; Semi-Supervised Learning; Image Classification

